README.md, before:

# Please cite
Algorithm: **Covariate Search**<br>
Author: **Michelangiolo Mazzeschi**<br>
Published: **2nd September 2024**

# simtag, covariate search made easy

We aim introduce the following technologies:
- **covariate search**
- **encrypted coviarate search**
- **covariate tagging**

The following library [is based on the following technical article](https://medium.com/towards-data-science/introducing-semantic-tag-filtering-enhancing-retrieval-with-tag-similarity-4f1b2d377a10), and aims to expand semantic search **from the limited one-to-one approach** into a **many-to-many approach (covariate search)**, using vector-encoded relationships to maximize the overall relevance of the tags.

![alt text](files/search-comparison.png)

This search aims to improve the classic **hard filtering** , which lacks flexibility in providing alternative results when the **regular search cannot retrieve enough samples**.

![alt text](files/missing-results.png)

## Covariate Search

This algorithm uses a new encoding method called **covariate encoding**, which employs an optional PCA module to provide high scalability to semantic tag filtering.

To provide better insights into the definitions:
- **sample**: the list of tags associated with an element in our database (ex. a Steam game). We search through our collection of thousands of existing samples.
- **query**: the list of tags that the user has input, the objective is to find a sample matching those tags.

In most encoding algorithms, we encode both queries and samples using the same algorithm. However, each sample contains more than one tag, each represented by a different set of relationships **that we need to capture in a single vector**.

![alt text](files/covariate-encoding.png)

This version of the encoding process differs from previous version, as it is now mathematically accurate

### PCA module

The encoding algorithm behaves differently when a PCA module has been applied to the data:

![alt text](files/pca-covariate-encoding.png)

We are still in the process of understanding what are some of the improvements that take plce during this process.

# using the simtag library

The library contains a set of pre-defined modules to facilitate the formatting and the computation of either the co-occurence or encoded matrix, as well as an encoding and search module given the parameters of your sample. If you already want to test it on a working example, you can try the jupyter notebook **notebooks/steam-games.ipynb**, which uses a live example from 40.000 Steam samples.

### simtag object

A note before starting: during the instantiation of our engine we will immediately need to input the sample list (containing the list of tags for every sample). The format of the sample_list is the following:
```
sample_list = [
    ['Adventure', 'Simulation', 'RPG', 'Strategy', 'Singleplayer', 'Classic'],
    ['Action', 'Indie', 'Adventure', 'Puzzle-Platformer', 'Arcade', 'Zombies'],
    ['Indie', 'Casual'],
    ['Casual', 'Platformer', 'Hand-drawn'],
    ...
]
```
Our first step will be to import and initiate the **simtag object**. 
```
from simtag.filter import simtag_filter

# initiate engine
# initiate engine
engine = simtag_filter(
    sample_list=sample_list,
    model_name='sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2'
)
```
We can now use all modules on top of the engine instance. 

### computing the co-occurence matrix

Our next step is to generate the relationship matrix - we have added the option to compute the co-occurence matrix from the library (note that I am using **Michelangiolo similarity** as a mean to computing it, which is not a highly scalable option, but the same relationship can be extracted with a variety of more advanced methods, such as neural network, ex. Embeddings), which stores the relationship between existing pair of samples using IoU (Intersection over Union).

```
# if not existing, compute M
M, df_M = engine.compute_M()
processing tags: 100%|██████████| 446/446 [1:18:52<00:00, 10.61s/it]
```
Be mindful of storing the metrix in a parquet file for quick retrieval, considering the long time it may be required to compute it again.
```
df_M.to_parquet('M.parquet')
```
Once you store the matrix, this process only has to be done once, as you can now retrieve it and store it into engine with the following code:
```
# if already existing, load M
df_M = pd.read_parquet('notebooks/steam-games/M.parquet')
engine.load_M(df_M, covariate_transformation='dot_product')
```
For convenience, we will use df_M to store and retrieve the relational matrix, however, in the backprocess of the library, this will be converted into a numpy array. Essentially, df_M is used as a wrapper for ease of use. The same format can be built using pre-trained encoders (lookt at twitter-news **for a scalable example on 53.300 tags**):

![alt text](files/df_M-example.png)

Let us visualize our co-occurrence matrix **in a much more comprehensible format** (extra code in the steam-games notebook):

![alt text](files/relationship-matrix.png)

### compute NHSW (navigable hierarchical small world)

As explained in the article, we are using Covariate encoding to retrieve the sample in a vector space. To prepare our samples for a vector search in a python environment we first need to encode them, then build our NHSW by making use of **scikit-learn Nearest Neighbor** function, where **k** indicates the number of samples to be returned.
```
sample_vectors = engine.encode_samples(sample_list)
nbrs = engine.compute_nbrs(sample_vectors, k=5)
```
We can now perform a **semantic tag search** on our samples.

## naive

This format of **semantic tag search** assigns an equal weight to each of our query tags:

```
query_tag_dict = [ 'Shooter', 'Dark Fantasy', 'Sci-fi']

# perform search
query_vector = engine.encode_query(list_tags=query_tag_dict, allow_new_tags=False, print_new_tags=True)
indices, search_results = engine.soft_tag_filtering(nbrs_covariate, sample_list, query_vector)
for s in search_results[0:5]:
    print(s)
```
The first result (k=5, so there will be other 4 we can explore) looks like it contains all our tags, and, additional tags that are related to our query tags.
```
[
    ['Action', 'FPS', 'Sci-fi', 'Shooter']
    ['Action', 'Third-Person Shooter', 'Sci-fi', 'Aliens', 'Space', 'Great Soundtrack', 'Shooter', 'Atmospheric', 'Futuristic']
    ['Action', 'FPS', 'Sci-fi', 'Shooter', 'First-Person', 'Singleplayer', 'Space', 'Difficult']
    ['Action', 'Shooter', 'Sci-fi', 'Classic', 'First-Person', 'FPS', 'Arcade']
    ['Action', 'FPS', 'Shooter', 'Singleplayer', 'First-Person', 'Arena Shooter', 'Futuristic', 'PvE', 'Robots', 'Sci-fi', 'Difficult']
    ...
```

## weighted

On the contrary, this format of **semantic tag search** assigns a different weight to each of our query tags. Because we are combining the vectors after performing the **covariate encoding** we can easily combine them using different weights:

```
query_tag_dict = {
    'Voxel' : 0.8,
    'Shooter' : 0.2,
    'Open World' : 0.6,
}

# perform search
query_vector = engine.encode_query(dict_tags=query_tag_dict)
indices, search_results = engine.soft_tag_filtering(nbrs_covariate, sample_list, query_vector)
for s in search_results[0:5]:
    print(s)
```
Hopefully, we can see quite clearly how the tags of te returned sample are more related to Open World, rather than Shooter:
```
[
    ['Adventure', 'Action', 'Simulation', 'Open World', 'Survival', 'Voxel', 'Sci-fi', 'Early Access']
    ['Open World', 'Massively Multiplayer', 'Building', 'Space Sim', 'Simulation', 'Sandbox', 'Space', 'Sci-fi', 'Action', 'Early Access', 'FPS', 'Voxel', 'Crafting', 'Destruction', 'Programming', 'Exploration', 'Robots', 'Multiplayer', 'Open World Survival Craft', 'First-Person']
    ['Early Access', 'Adventure', 'Sandbox', 'MMORPG', 'Voxel', 'Crafting', 'Base-Building', 'Massively Multiplayer', 'Procedural Generation', 'Action RPG', 'FPS', 'Third-Person Shooter', 'Colorful', 'First-Person', 'Third Person', 'Open World', 'Character Customization', 'Combat', 'Inventory Management', 'PvE']
    ['Strategy', 'Action', 'Adventure', 'Simulation', 'Survival', 'Open World', 'Voxel', 'Sci-fi', 'FPS']
    ['Survival', 'Zombies', 'Voxel', 'Open World', 'Open World Survival Craft', 'Multiplayer', 'Post-apocalyptic', 'Base-Building', 'Online Co-Op', 'Exploration', 'Simulation', 'Sandbox', 'Building', 'Strategy', 'Character Customization', 'FPS', 'Procedural Generation', 'Tower Defense', 'Action', 'Early Access']
...
```

Commit message:

embedded automatic clustering option, replaced df_M with M and pointers

README.md, after:

# Please cite
Algorithm: **Covariate Search**<br>
Author: **Michelangiolo Mazzeschi**<br>
Published: **2nd September 2024**

# simtag, covariate search made easy

We aim introduce the following technologies:
- **covariate search**
- **encrypted coviarate search**
- **covariate tagging**

The following library [is based on the following technical article](https://medium.com/towards-data-science/introducing-semantic-tag-filtering-enhancing-retrieval-with-tag-similarity-4f1b2d377a10), and aims to expand semantic search **from the limited one-to-one approach** into a **many-to-many approach (covariate search)**, using vector-encoded relationships to maximize the overall relevance of the tags.

![alt text](files/search-comparison.png)

This search aims to improve the classic **hard filtering** , which lacks flexibility in providing alternative results when the **regular search cannot retrieve enough samples**.

![alt text](files/missing-results.png)

## Covariate Search

This algorithm uses a new encoding method called **covariate encoding**, which employs an optional PCA module to provide high scalability to semantic tag filtering.

To provide better insights into the definitions:
- **sample**: the list of tags associated with an element in our database (ex. a Steam game). We search through our collection of thousands of existing samples.
- **query**: the list of tags that the user has input, the objective is to find a sample matching those tags.

In most encoding algorithms, we encode both queries and samples using the same algorithm. However, each sample contains more than one tag, each represented by a different set of relationships **that we need to capture in a single vector**.

![alt text](files/covariate-encoding.png)

This version of the encoding process differs from previous version, as it is now mathematically accurate

### PCA module

The encoding algorithm behaves differently when a PCA module has been applied to the data:

![alt text](files/pca-covariate-encoding.png)

We are still in the process of understanding what are some of the improvements that take plce during this process.

# using the simtag library

The library contains a set of pre-defined modules to facilitate the formatting and the computation of either the co-occurence or encoded matrix, as well as an encoding and search module given the parameters of your sample. If you already want to test it on a working example, you can try the jupyter notebook **notebooks/steam-games.ipynb**, which uses a live example from 40.000 Steam samples.

### simtag object

A note before starting: during the instantiation of our engine we will immediately need to input the sample list (containing the list of tags for every sample). The format of the sample_list is the following:
```
sample_list = [
    ['Adventure', 'Simulation', 'RPG', 'Strategy', 'Singleplayer', 'Classic'],
    ['Action', 'Indie', 'Adventure', 'Puzzle-Platformer', 'Arcade', 'Zombies'],
    ['Indie', 'Casual'],
    ['Casual', 'Platformer', 'Hand-drawn'],
    ...
]
```
Our first step will be to import and initiate the **simtag object**. 
```
from simtag.filter import simtag_filter

# initiate engine
engine = simtag_filter(
    sample_list=sample_list,
    model_name='sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2'
)
```
We can now use all modules on top of the engine instance. 

### computing the co-occurence matrix

Our next step is to generate the relationship matrix - (this version of the model no longer supports the computation of the co-occurence matrix, only the calculation of vectors using a pre-trained model).

For our firs step, we will need to compute the vector of each tag, which we will store in a matrix called M. This matrix will be used to calculate the samples vector, while the pointers link each tag with its corresponding vector stored in M.

Because, in some use cases, the number of tags could reach an unsustainable amount (the Steam example reaches 53.300, which performs very well in terms of accuracy, but substantially slows all the encoding processes), we can maintain a stable size of the vector by using k-means clustering, and capping the vector length to 1000 (an arbitrary number that you can change).

```
# compute both M and pointers
M, valid_tags, pointers = engine.compute_optimal_M(verbose=True, n_clusters=1000)
engine.load_M(M, tag_pointers, covariate_transformation='dot_product')
```
Be mindful of storing both M and pointers for quick retrieval, considering the long time it may be required to compute it again.
```
# store pre-computed files
engine.npy_save(M, 'notebooks/twitter-news/M_quantized')
engine.json_save(pointers, 'notebooks/twitter-news/pointers')
```
Once you have stored the files, this process only has to be done once, as you can now retrieve it and store it into engine with the following code:
```
# load pre-computed files
M = engine.npy_load('notebooks/twitter-news/M_quantized')
pointers = engine.json_load('notebooks/twitter-news/pointers')
```

### compute NHSW (navigable hierarchical small world)

As explained in the article, we are using Covariate encoding to retrieve the sample in a vector space. To prepare our samples for a vector search in a python environment we first need to encode them, then build our NHSW by making use of **scikit-learn Nearest Neighbor** function, where **k** indicates the number of samples to be returned.
```
sample_vectors = engine.encode_samples(sample_list)
nbrs = engine.compute_nbrs(sample_vectors, k=5)
```
We can now perform a **semantic tag search** on our samples.

## naive

This format of **covariate search** assigns an equal weight to each of our query tags:

```
query_tag_dict = [ 'Shooter', 'Dark Fantasy', 'Sci-fi']

# perform search
query_vector = engine.encode_query(list_tags=query_tag_dict, allow_new_tags=False, print_new_tags=True)
indices, search_results = engine.soft_tag_filtering(nbrs_covariate, sample_list, query_vector)
for s in search_results:
    print(s)
```
The first result (k=5, so there will be other 4 we can explore) looks like it contains all our tags, and, additional tags that are related to our query tags.
```
[
    ['Action', 'FPS', 'Sci-fi', 'Shooter']
    ['Action', 'Third-Person Shooter', 'Sci-fi', 'Aliens', 'Space', 'Great Soundtrack', 'Shooter', 'Atmospheric', 'Futuristic']
    ['Action', 'FPS', 'Sci-fi', 'Shooter', 'First-Person', 'Singleplayer', 'Space', 'Difficult']
    ['Action', 'Shooter', 'Sci-fi', 'Classic', 'First-Person', 'FPS', 'Arcade']
    ['Action', 'FPS', 'Shooter', 'Singleplayer', 'First-Person', 'Arena Shooter', 'Futuristic', 'PvE', 'Robots', 'Sci-fi', 'Difficult']
    ...
```

## weighted

On the contrary, this format of **covariate search** assigns a different weight to each of our query tags. Because we are combining the vectors after performing the **covariate encoding** we can easily combine them using different weights:

```
query_tag_dict = {
    'Voxel' : 0.8,
    'Shooter' : 0.2,
    'Open World' : 0.6,
}

# perform search
query_vector = engine.encode_query(dict_tags=query_tag_dict)
indices, search_results = engine.soft_tag_filtering(nbrs_covariate, sample_list, query_vector)
for s in search_results:
    print(s)
```
Hopefully, we can see quite clearly how the tags of te returned sample are more related to Open World, rather than Shooter:
```
[
    ['Adventure', 'Action', 'Simulation', 'Open World', 'Survival', 'Voxel', 'Sci-fi', 'Early Access']
    ['Open World', 'Massively Multiplayer', 'Building', 'Space Sim', 'Simulation', 'Sandbox', 'Space', 'Sci-fi', 'Action', 'Early Access', 'FPS', 'Voxel', 'Crafting', 'Destruction', 'Programming', 'Exploration', 'Robots', 'Multiplayer', 'Open World Survival Craft', 'First-Person']
    ['Early Access', 'Adventure', 'Sandbox', 'MMORPG', 'Voxel', 'Crafting', 'Base-Building', 'Massively Multiplayer', 'Procedural Generation', 'Action RPG', 'FPS', 'Third-Person Shooter', 'Colorful', 'First-Person', 'Third Person', 'Open World', 'Character Customization', 'Combat', 'Inventory Management', 'PvE']
    ['Strategy', 'Action', 'Adventure', 'Simulation', 'Survival', 'Open World', 'Voxel', 'Sci-fi', 'FPS']
    ['Survival', 'Zombies', 'Voxel', 'Open World', 'Open World Survival Craft', 'Multiplayer', 'Post-apocalyptic', 'Base-Building', 'Online Co-Op', 'Exploration', 'Simulation', 'Sandbox', 'Building', 'Strategy', 'Character Customization', 'FPS', 'Procedural Generation', 'Tower Defense', 'Action', 'Early Access']
...
```
